{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10560\viewh11360\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 USUS\
\
1 UI Elements\
\
1.1 Usus Cockpit\
\
1.2 Hotspots\
\
1.3 Graphs\
\
2 Metrics and Statistics\
\
In Usus, we distinguish between the static code analysis in which we extract several data describing the code, and the evaluation of these data, leading to statistical information regarding the code. These two steps are isolated from each other. In particular, we implement multiple statistics for the same metrics data. This allows us to adapt to different user needs, e.g. different statistics may be suitable for different levels of code quality, or one statistic may combine the data extracted in multiple static analyses.\
\
In the following, everything that is said for methods holds equally for initializers. We refrain from mentioning both in order to keep the text more readable.\
\
The metrics either analyze the contents of a single source code file without referring to any other files, or they analyze the relations between multiple source code files. Therefore, we distinguish between file-local and relation-centric metrics. For each metric, we list to which category it belongs.\
\
2.1 Method Length\
\
This metrics is file-local.\
\
The metrics determines the number of statements in the method body. This differs from the lines of code in various aspects:\
- closing braces on a line by themselves are not counted\
- comments are not counted\
- statements spanning more than one line are counted as 1 (this is especially influential in the presence of anonymous classes)\
- the method header is not counted\
- the parenthesis closing the method body is not counted\
\
The statistic limits the allowed number of statements to 15. Each method with more than 15 statements in its body is counted as violation and listed in the Hotspots View.\
\
2.2 Cyclomatic Complexity\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 This metrics is file-local.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
The metrics determines the number of possible branches in the method's execution path. An empty method has a cyclomatic complexity of 1. Each occurrence of one of the following elements increases the cyclomatic complexity by 1:\
- while\
- do-while\
- for\
- if\
- one case of a switch statement\
- catch clause\
- conditional operator (aka. ? : operator)\
- conditional boolean operators (&& and ||)\
\
The statistic limits the allowed cyclomatic complexity to 5. \
\
\
2.3 Class Size\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 This metrics is file-local.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
The metrics determines the number of methods and initializers in the class. The method visibility is not taken into account. It is irrelevant whether the methods are static or nonstatic.\
\
The statistic limits the allowed number of methods and initializers to 20.\
\
\
\
2.4 Cumulative Component Dependency / Average Component Dependency\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 This metrics is relation-centric.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
2.5 Packages in cyclic dependencies\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 This metrics is relation-centric.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
2.6 Class cycles crossing package boundaries\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 This metrics is relation-centric.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\
\
}